---
{"dg-publish":true,"tags":"timeline, IRL","permalink":"/the-story/2021-10-28/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

<span 
	  class='ob-timelines' 
	  data-date='2021-10-28-17' 
	  data-title='Session' 
	  data-class='orange' 
	  data-type='range' 
	  data-end='2021-10-28-23'> 
	 Sie haben alle unter verschiedenen Bedingungen eingewilligt teil der Crew von Aurelia zu werden.
</span>

# Session Notes 28.10.2021
## Plan
- [[The U5/The U5|The U5]] komman auf dem weg zum Bootssteeg an der Lava Kaverne vorbei wo sich das Ei regt und sich richtung wärme bewegen will. sobald es Lava berührt wird es schlüpfen und sich an die Party binden. 
- Das Boot ist in einem versteckten trocken dock zu welchem sie erst den weg finden müssen. (Weg können sie nur durch suchen finden)
- [[The U5/Sidekicks/Danger Noodle|Danger Noodle]] zieht sie in Richtung Lava falls [[The U5/The U5|The U5]] in der nähe von der Lava Kaverne sind. 
- Boot braucht Brnnbares material für Antrieb oder etwas anderes, dass hitze erzeugt (z.B.: [[The U5/Sidekicks/Danger Noodle|Danger Noodle]]). 
- Verteilung der [[System Reference/Seafaring/Funktionen an Bord|Funktionen an Bord]].

### Seefahrt

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">




# Crew
## CREW MEMBERS
A ship requires a number of able-bodied sailors to crew it, as specified in its stat block. A crew's skill, experience, morale. and health are defined by its quality score. This score can affect a number of general ship activities, like the crew's ability to notice threats or contend with hazards. A crew starts with a quality score of +4. but that score varies over time, going as low as - 10 and as high as +10. It decreases as a crew takes casualties. suffers hardship, or endures poor health. It increases if the crew enjoys high morale, has good health care, and receives fair leadership.  
(A typical crew member uses the commoner stat block in the Monster Manual.)

---
## LOYALTY AND QUALITY
When dealing with an individual member of the crew, you might find it useful to use the optional [[System Reference/Loyalty|loyalty]] rule from chapter 4 of the Dungeon Master's Guide. To convert a quality score into an individual's [[System Reference/Loyalty|loyalty]] score. add 10 to the crew's quality score.
>
<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><div class="markdown-embed">




# LOYALTY
Loyalty is an optional rule you can use to determine how far an NPC party member will go to protect or assist the other members of the party (even those he or she doesn't particularly like). An NPC party member who is abused or ignored is likely to abandon or betray the party, whereas an NPC who owes a life debt to the characters or shares their goals might fight to the death for them. Loyalty can be roleplayed or represented by this rule.

## LOYALTY SCORE
An NPC's loyalty is measured on a numerical scale from 0 to 20. The NPC's maximum loyalty score is equal to the highest Charisma score among all adventurers in the party, and its starting loyalty score is half that number. If the highest Charisma score changes (perhaps a character dies or leaves the group) adjust the NPC's loyalty score accordingly.

## TRACKING LOYALTY
Keep track of an NPC's loyalty score in secret so that the players won't know for sure whether an NPC party member is loyal or disloyal (even if the NPC is currently under a player's control).
An NPC's loyalty score increases by 1d4 if other party members help the NPC achieve a goal tied to its bond. Likewise, an NPC's loyalty score increases by 1d4 if the NPC is treated particularly well (for example, given a magic weapon as a gift) or rescued by another party member. An NPC's loyalty score can never be raised above its maximum.
When other party members act in a manner that runs counter to the NPC's alignment or bond, reduce the NPC's loyalty score by 1d4. Reduce the NPC's loyalty score by 2d4 if the character is abused, misled, or endangered by other party members for purely selfish reasons.
An NPC whose loyalty score drops to 0 is no longer loyal to the party and might part ways with them. A loyalty score can never drop below 0.
An NPC with a loyalty score of **10 or higher risks life and limb** to help fellow party members. If the NPC's loyalty score is **between 1 and 10, its loyalty is tenuous**. An NPC whose **loyalty drops to 0 no longer acts in the party's best interests**. The disloyal NPC either leaves the party (attacking characters who attempt to intervene) or works in secret to bring about the party's downfall.

</div></div>


---
## MUTINY
A poorly led or mistreated crew might turn against its officers. Once per day, if a crew's quality score is lower than 0, the captain must make a Charisma (Intimidation or Persuasion) check modified by the crew's qualityscore. If the check total is between 1 and 9. the crew's quality score decreases by 1.
If the check total is 0 or lower, the crew mutinies. They become hostile to the officers and might attempt to kill them. imprison them, or throw them overboard.
The crew can be cowed into obedience through violence, combat, or offers of treasure or other rewards. When the DM ends tbe mutiny, the crew's quaHty score increases by `dice: 1d4`.

---
## SHORE LEAVE
Life aboard a ship is a constant wear on the crew. Spending time in port allows the crew to relax and re- gain its composure.
If a crew's quality score is 3 or lower, the score increases by 1 for each day the crew spends in port or ashore.

</div></div>


### Boot Bindung
- As soon as [[The U5/Sidekicks/Danger Noodle|danger noodle]] boards the ship, Heartbeat an Humming
- [[The U5/Sidekicks/Danger Noodle|danger noodle]] will start to glow and hover and ask who will be the officers of this ship.
- Etherium in ihren Adern beginnt zu Pulsieren.

>Ich bin scho lang nüm so wach gsi.
>Und han scho lang nüm so vill Potenzial gse.
ich danke eu das ihr mir es neus Herz bracht händ.
Sind ihr mini neui [[System Reference/Seafaring/Crew|crew]]?
Bringed mir bundni magie und ich wird si entfesslä, So dass niemert jeh eusi macht chan in frag stelle.
Ich wird eu absulut diäne.
_Glory Seeker:_ The item seeks Renown as the greatest magic item in the world, by establishing its user as a famous or notorious figure.

[[NPC/Crew/Aurelia|Aurelia]]]
Bei Einwilligung Ouroboros um Unterarm Eingebrannt nicht Schmertzlos aber weniger als erwartet, Warmes Gefühl füllt Brustkorb.

>Hildigard weiss nicht woher das schiff ist sie weiss nur das es kein Gnomeisches Werk ist

### Befragung durch Magier von Haus Varaxis
Woher kommen [[The U5/The U5|The U5]]
Unter welchen Umständen sind sie Gereist?
Durch welche mechanismen?
Wer verantwortlich unter welchem Grund?
Was ist ihr jetziger Plan?
Darf er einige Tests durchführen?
Andere Auffälligkeiten an ihrem Ankunftsort?
Auffälligkeiten Allgemein ist seither etwas spezielles geschehen?

#### Tests
Magische bindung an das Boot was beinhalted sie?
>Magische Items die in Den Ofen geworfen werden werden Einverleibt, die Magie wird freigesetzt und eingebaut.

Ob sie immer noch eine Starke bindung zu ihrer Heimatsspäre haben oder ob ihre Reise diese kekappt hat.

## Realität
Sie haben alle unter verschiedenen Bedingungen eingewilligt teil der [[System Reference/Seafaring/Crew|Crew]] von [[NPC/Crew/Aurelia|Aurelia]] zu werden.
folgend gegenstände wurden an [[NPC/Crew/Aurelia|Aurelia]] geopfert:
- Campers rispite
- Void Arrom
- Elemental Gem (Water)

Not yet paid by Hildigard: 1 Saphire (1000gp) + 1 uncut Saphire (400gp)
will party Gems oder gegenwert in Gold?

Haben 10 Kobolde in ihre [[System Reference/Seafaring/Crew|crew]] aufgenommen: [[NPC/Crew/Kobolds|Kobolds]]
