---
{"dg-publish":true,"BaseRelation":null,"EnergyRelation":null,"aliases":null,"tags":"noList","permalink":"/places/cosmology/planes-of-existance/inner-planes/energy-planes/energy-planes/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Inner Planes|Inner Planes]]
# What are the Energy Planes?
[[image-asset.png]]
Known as the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] and the Positive Energy Plane, these two planes are at extremes from each other and act as the boundaries of the multiverse. The [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] is the source of all death, all matter and energy is nullified within its boundaries, while the Positive Energy Plane is the source of all life, vibrating energy is on full, brilliant display within its boundaries. These two planes are the most basic of the building blocks to life in the multiverse and are the deadliest. 

The two planes border the major Inner Planes; [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]], [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Earth|Plane of Earth]], [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Fire|Plane of Fire]], and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Water|Plane of Water]], on opposite sides from each other. Where the two planes meet those Inner Planes, they form the Quasi-Elemental planes. The Positive Energy Plane helped create the positive quasi-elemental planes of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Lightning|Plane of Lightning]], [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Mineral|Plane of Mineral]], [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Radiance|Plane of Radiance]], and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Steam|Plane of Steam]] while the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] helped create the negative quasi-elemental planes of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Negative Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Ash|Plane of Ash]], [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Negative Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of  Dust|Plane of  Dust]], [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Negative Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of  Salt|Plane of  Salt]], and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Negative Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of  Vacuum|Plane of  Vacuum]].

The elemental planes are the cornerstones of the foundation of the multiverse, from them all things can be built, but it is only from the Energy Planes that life is breathed into them, and then taken away.

## History
The Energy Planes are first introduced in the 1st edition’s _Manual of the Planes (1987)_ though it is quite brief. While the information provided on the two planes is somewhat limited, being expanded on in the 2nd edition _The Inner Planes (1998)_ and the 3rd edition _Manual of the Planes (2001)_, there is still enough information to know that these two planes are highly dangerous for any creature. Those who decide to inhabit either of these planes are often thought to be mad and to die very soon. Only a handful of creatures can visit these planes and have any hope of returning unless they go very well prepared and have a very specific goal to accomplish.    

## An Outsider’s Perspective
Inhospitable. Extreme danger. Certain death. No matter where an adventurer might go, these words are sure to follow any information they find about the planes. The Energy Planes are pure and it is near-impossible to have anything exist in a plane for any length of time before the energy of that plane simply destroys it. A few brave travelers have managed to carve out an existence in this unforgiving planes, but it takes a monumental will and powerful magic to help accomplish such a goal.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane An Outsider’s Perspective|Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane An Outsider’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane An Outsider’s Perspective|Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane An Outsider’s Perspective]]

## A Native’s Perspective
It is unknown if either of these planes could actually produce life, though there are a few creatures who make their home on these planes. Often, these creatures are based on extremes and may even be outside the mortal understanding of creatures. Even the gods won’t make their home on these planes as the energy, or lack thereof, is enough to cause them uneasiness. It is unknown if a god could be killed by one of these planes and it isn’t something anyone has been able to test.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane A Native’s Perspective|Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane A Native’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane A Native’s Perspective|Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane A Native’s Perspective]]

## Atmosphere
The Energy Planes are devoid of anything that might be considered an atmosphere. Each plane is so attuned to its own energy that no other [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Mineral|Plane of Mineral]], element, or creature could exist inside of the plane. Those who must breathe have to bring their own [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] with them or bring with them magic to help them breathe in the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Negative Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of  Vacuum|Plane of  Vacuum]]. Certain spells, like _[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Water|Plane of Water]] breathing_ fail on these planes as there is nothing for the spell to transform.

Of course, being able to breathe is only a secondary concern when it comes to traveling these planes. As soon as a creature arrives they are submitted to the raw energies of these planes that can kill them before they run out of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]].

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane Atmosphere|Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane Atmosphere]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane Atmosphere|Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane Atmosphere]]

# Traits
## Travel to the Planes
Of all the planes, the Energy Planes may be the hardest to travel too as not many have an interest in visiting such hostile locations. Even dangerous places like the Abyss, the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Fire|Plane of Fire]], Baator, and others see a steady stream of visitors and so portals to such planes are well documented. For the Energy Planes, even if a portal is stumbled across, travelers will ignore it as it is incredibly difficult to find someone willing to pay for information on those portals. 

There is at least one permanent portal known by certain factions of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]] for each plane, though gaining access to those portals are quite difficult. The Dustmen jealously guard their portal to the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] as the portal leads to their Fortress of the Soul where their factor resides in the bliss of undeath. On the Positive Energy Plane are the clerics and paladins who oversee Hospice, a fortress focused on healing any ailment no matter how difficult. No one is quite sure where their portal on [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]] is, but [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]] has a portal everywhere somewhere in the city so it stands to reason there is one.

A traveler can also journey across the quasi-elemental planes and hope to stumble across the boundaries between planes, though that can take months or years to complete such a journey unless you have an elemental guide - though even that might take weeks to accomplish. A faster way of traveling from one plane to an Energy Plane is to go into the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Ethereal Plane|Ethereal Plane]] and simply find the color curtain for the plane you want to travel to. Of course, there is no telling where you might end up on the Border Ethereal and, while most Border Ethereals are safe, those that border the Energy Planes are so infused with life or death, that many travelers succumb to that Energy Planes’ effects even though they are just gazing at it from across the planes.

## Traversing the Planes
Traveling across the Energy Planes is difficult for those unprepared, and even for those prepared. The Energy Planes hold no atmosphere, meaning there is nothing to walk, fly, swim, or move against. Birds released on the planes, who don’t somehow immediately die, have no purchase against the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] as there is no [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] to flap their wings through unless they are using a _fly_ spell or similar magic to propel themselves forwards. Creatures can try to walk or swim through the nothingness of the planes, but it’s all in vain unless they can mentally put their minds to it. The act of moving is similar to that of the Astral Sea which relies on willing yourself to move forward. The [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] is often thought to be ‘thicker’ of the two planes, making it easier to move there though the Positive Energy Plane allows creatures to simply think of where they want to go and instantly teleport there. 

Either because both planes are simply devoid of stuff or because every creature is immediately blinded, either by piercing light or pitch blackness, it's difficult for any creature to get their bearings in the Energy Planes. No landmarks exist, and even if they did no one could see them, and the energon inhabitants are more likely to ignore you than even kill you. Traveling the Energy Plane is simply about luck when it comes to finding anything out there, and with the planes being considered infinite, creatures must be very lucky to find anything without direction or thought of what they are looking for.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane#Doldrums - Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane#Doldrums - Negative Energy Plane]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Positive  Energy Plane#Edge Zones - Positive Energy Plane|Positive  Energy Plane#Edge Zones - Positive Energy Plane]]

# Locations
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane Locations|Negative Energy Plane#Negative Energy Plane Locations]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane Locations|Positive  Energy Plane#Positive Energy Plane Locations]]

## Imprisoning Cells
Both Energy Planes are often used to trap and lock away great evil or great good, banishing powerful artifacts, demi-powers, and more. While the planes may not be enough to truly destroy them, at least for eons to come, they can be locked away in iron chests, coffins enchanted against all entry, and more. Evil creatures and items are tossed into the endless brilliance of the Positive Energy Plane, while champions of good and their powerful weapons are left behind to rot in the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]]. Sometimes travelers might stumble upon such items, opening and releasing their contents - this might release a mighty paladin or unleash a foul lich of death.

# Factions & People
## The Powers
While no power claims a domain in one of these planes, many travel to these planes for one reason or another. Those who travel to the Positive Energy Plane do so to gather up the raw essence of life to become the catalyst for a new creation of theirs. Those who travel to the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] do so to realign themselves to undeath, find a few undead creatures and drag them out to fulfill some foul deed. 

It is rumored that there is one power who resides in the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]], but no one has survived a visit with the entity. Many claim that the entity goes by the name of Siva, but few know what the power wants or if it is even a true being but rather the idea of destruction and endings.

## Ravid
The ravid is a strange and curious creature who is native to the Positive Energy Plane, though no one is quite sure where it originally came from or if it was spawned there. While it is on the Positive Energy Plane, no one is likely to notice it as it just exists as part of the plane itself. As soon as it leaves the plane, it is given a strange form of a long serpent with no mouth and a spindly arm that grows from its head. Gleaming with a golden light, it pushes back all darkness and burns with an energizing [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Radiance|Plane of Radiance]].

## Undead
Hordes of undead move through the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]], causing the plane to be even more dangerous than before. Clerics who channel the divine power of their gods to turn or destroy them find themselves quickly surrounded as the undead despise any positive energy in their plane. These undead are largely mindless, but powerful individuals can rise up and lead armies of these shambling creatures. Because the plane kills creatures and then forces the bodies of those creatures to rise as undead, their armies continue to swell in size as more travelers attempt to explore this plane.

## Xag-ya / Xeg-yi
[[image-asset 1.jpeg|image-asset 1.jpeg]]
Little is known about these energons and what is known is largely rumors and whispers. These beings are proof that any plane of existence, known or unknown, can support life for the Energy Planes are considered to be the least conducive to life. The xag-ya move through the Positive Energy Plane, though no one is entirely sure what they are doing or what mission they might be conducting. The xeg-yi can be found in the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Energy Planes/Negative Energy Plane|Negative Energy Plane]] similarly, its strange alien mind incomprehensible by outsiders.

These beings appear as orbs of blue light, in the case of the xag-ya, or orbs of orange light, in the case of xeg-yi, both have tentacles on their underside. They hover through the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] and use the orbs like their heads, gazing at other creatures with some interest, though due to their attunement to their Energy Plane, it often causes harm to living creatures. Many think they don’t quite understand that their very being is harmful to others, but no one can be sure of their motivations.

They sometimes escape their Energy Plane and travel the multiverse, gazing curiously at everything around them. They are known to be quite curious, and while they may not appear especially dangerous, can shoot out beams of energy that either burn with [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Positive Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Radiance|Plane of Radiance]], for the xag-ya, or rot all materials, for the xeg-yi. If the two ever see each other, they immediately slam into one another, exploding violently in a wave of destructive energy.  

# Encounters
**Curious Friends -** After the group is attacked by a horde of undead in some far off world, a strange orb appears filled with a blue radiant light that strikes out at the undead, obliterating them in blinding light. It turns to the party, gazing at them curiously, and seems to desire something. It’s looking for life, for energy.

**Dusty Jobs -** The Dustmen in the Mortuary located in [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]] are having an issue. A creature of life and energy has somehow made it into their Fortress of the Soul and it's refusing to leave. They’ve tried reasoning that existence is futile and that it is stopping the True Death from taking everyone, but it is refusing to listen. The Dustmen don’t want to lose the fortress to some agent of light, but they have trouble gazing on such a radiant creature - they need someone to sort out the issue for them.

**Entombed -** Traveling the Energy Planes a strange tomb appears exuding an energy that is opposite and an anathema to the plane it is on. Whispers and pleas escape the iron tomb, rewards and promises urge the travelers to open it. 

**Who Watches the Watchers? -** Rumors that a minotaur vampire has taken over Death Heart are beginning to surface and several of the factions are gathering up adventurers to investigate what might be happening in the city of the dead. It’s a dangerous task, but for many, it is a holy calling to destroy such abominations and mockeries of life.