---
{"dg-publish":true,"BaseRelation":null,"EnergyRelation":null,"aliases":null,"tags":"noList","permalink":"/places/cosmology/planes-of-existance/inner-planes/para-elemental-planes/para-elemental-planes/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Inner Planes|Inner Planes]]
# What are the Para-Elemental Planes?
Where the major Inner Planes meet, they form the para-elemental planes, minor planes of existence that combine the materials of two different major elements into a single plane. These planes are [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]], a minor plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Water|Plane of Water]]; [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma|Plane of Magma]], a minor plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Earth|Plane of Earth]] and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Fire|Plane of Fire]]; [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]], a minor plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Earth|Plane of Earth]] and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Water|Plane of Water]]; and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]], a minor plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Fire|Plane of Fire]]. They are considered minor because of the difficulty of reaching these planes, and the smaller number of inhabitants that reside on them.

These planes, while minor, are far more dangerous than the major planes they adjoin, one of the reasons why they are so scarcely populated. Despite the danger of visiting such places, they each hold unique locales and treasures within their depths.
[[image-asset-5.jpeg|image-asset-5.jpeg]]

## History
The para-elemental planes are first introduced in the _Manual of the Planes (1987)_ where their foundations are first laid. It’s not until _The Inner Planes (1998)_ that additional detail is provided on the inhabitants, specifics to the planes, and locations to visit. These planes’ paraelementals are the only creatures that are referenced in 3rd edition and in 4th edition, and while these planes are touched on in 5th edition’s _Dungeon Master’s Guide (2014)_, very little is revealed on them, though [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]] is renamed to [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Negative Quasi-Elemental Planes/Plane of Ash|Plane of Ash]].

## An Outsider’s Perspective
These minor planes are as varied from each other as the major planes that make them up. For outsiders, these planes are dangerous, but for those who have learned their secrets, can hold hidden treasures unable to be found anywhere else in the planes. Each of these para-elemental planes presents unique challenges to be overcome, and if an individual can survive traveling across all of them, they are ready to face down any challenge they might come across in the multiverse.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice#Ice An Outsider’s Perspective|Plane of Ice#Ice An Outsider’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma#Magma An Outsider’s Perspective|Plane of Magma#Magma An Outsider’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze#Ooze An Outsider’s Perspective|Plane of Ooze#Ooze An Outsider’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke#Smoke An Outsider’s Perspective|Plane of Smoke#Smoke An Outsider’s Perspective]]

## A Native’s Perspective
The majority of those who are willing to reside and inhabit this plane are the paraelementals and mephits who are formed from their plane. There are other races and creatures of these planes, though they are sparse and many have long ago left these planes for more hospitable planes like the major Inner Planes or even the Material Plane. Almost no true powers claim any parts of these planes, though many are working towards taking on the mantle of archomental, primordial, and even godhood.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice#Ice A Native’s Perspective|Plane of Ice#Ice A Native’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma#Magma A Native’s Perspective|Plane of Magma#Magma A Native’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze#Ooze A Native’s Perspective|Plane of Ooze#Ooze A Native’s Perspective]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke#Smoke A Native’s Perspective|Plane of Smoke#Smoke A Native’s Perspective]]

## Atmosphere
The atmospheres on each of these planes are heavily influenced by the major elemental planes that they adjoin, combining them and bringing in new hazards. Not every plane is breathable, and each plane has unique hazards that make it difficult to survive traversing them. These planes can support life, but it is a life that has evolved in an alien way to overcome the dangers of each plane.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice#Ice Atmosphere|Plane of Ice#Ice Atmosphere]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma#Magma Atmosphere|Plane of Magma#Magma Atmosphere]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze#Ooze Atmosphere|Plane of Ooze#Ooze Atmosphere]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke#Smoke Atmosphere|Plane of Smoke#Smoke Atmosphere]]

# Traits
## Travel to the Plane
Most people who are looking to travel to these planes are often asked why they would ever do that, doubly so for those who wish to visit the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]]. Despite any misgivings a traveler may have of journeying to these planes, it is not extremely difficult for those who are keen on visiting. There are portals in [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]], the Outlands, and other places across the multiverse that offer ways of arriving in these portals. [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]] has several portals in its sewers and in the Hive that offer connections to the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]], as well as portals to the other planes at random locations as the Lady of Pain sees fit to create them. 

Portals to the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]] can be found on Bytopia that requires the breath of a gnome to open, and as if they shouldn’t be outdone, Moradin, the god over dwarves, built his portal on the slopes of Mount Celestia in his realm. [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]] has portals on many of the layers of the Abyss, like the 222nd layer where the kingdom of Juiblex is said to be. It’s little surprise that a demon prince of oozes might have some interest in such a horrible and mucky place like [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]].

If you are trying to get to [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma|Plane of Magma]], there is a well-known portal in a remote portion of the Outlands built of basalt. No one knows who built the portal, and many believe it was quite a small creature who did so as most humanoids have to squeeze through, making it almost impossible for large creatures to access it. Instead, if a traveler is hoping to get to [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]], there are portals known to exist on Cania, the eighth layer of Baator, though that is a difficult portal to access if one isn’t a devil. There is also a portal on Muspelheim, a fiery layer located on Ysgard, though no one is quite sure how it formed or for what purpose.

Portals to these planes can spring up anywhere their specific elements come together in sufficient quantities. Freezing cold oceans on the Material Plane may link to the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]], just as the centers of volcanoes may hold a portal to the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma|Plane of Magma]]. [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]] is often found above large forest fires where toxic [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] clings to itself, while [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]] portals can often be found in places of swampy detritus and rotted corpses. 

Since these planes adjoin the borders of the major elemental planes, they can also be walked to on any of the adjoining planes. This requires a guide, as each of these planes are infinite by their very nature, making it difficult for outsiders to truly understand where these borders are located in relation to the plane itself.

## Traversing the Plane
Only those who understand what dangers exist on these planes can truly be prepared for what they face. Traversing any of these planes is no simple task and requires magic, strength, and a healthy amount of luck to even have a chance of surviving them.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice#Ice Traversing the Plane|Plane of Ice#Ice Traversing the Plane]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma#Magma Traversing the Plane|Plane of Magma#Magma Traversing the Plane]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze#Ooze Traversing the Plane|Plane of Ooze#Ooze Traversing the Plane]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke#Smoke Traversing the Plane|Plane of Smoke#Smoke Traversing the Plane]]

# Locations
These planes adjoin the major elemental planes, as well as border several quasi-elemental planes. Each plane has six borders that behave slightly differently than the core of the plane, providing new hazards and dangers for travelers. Most settlements often form up around the most hospitable borders, leaving other borders devoid of life if it is too dangerous to reside there.

[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice#Ice Locations|Plane of Ice#Ice Locations]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma#Magma Locations|Plane of Magma#Magma Locations]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze#Ooze Locations|Plane of Ooze#Ooze Locations]]
[[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke#Smoke Locations|Plane of Smoke#Smoke Locations]]

# Factions & People
## Genies
The genies don’t reside on the para-elemental planes but do wage their wars constantly across them. The djinn and efreet, from the planes of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Air|Plane of Air]] and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Fire|Plane of Fire]] respectively, wage their war across the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]]. The dao and marid, from the planes of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Earth|Plane of Earth]] and [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Elemental Planes/Plane of Water|Plane of Water]] respectively, wage their war across the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]]. Dao and efreet often meet secretly on the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma|Plane of Magma]], conducting trade missions as well as planning their attacks on their hated enemies. While the djinn and marid also meet on the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]], though neither much care for the freezing temperatures and, while they are not hostile with each other, rarely take to planning large engagements against their enemies. 

The genies also use these planes as hunting grounds, moving across the planes in search of elemental animals of these planes, or hunting the mephits and paraelementals. The genies see the mephits as nothing more than vermin and pests, slaughtering large numbers of them like they would of pestering rodents. 

## The Powers
No true power lays claim to any portion of these planes, this might be because these planes are so difficult to get to or that they are just too hazardous for outsiders to visit that the gods have decided it isn’t worth the effort. There are a wide variety of individuals who believe themselves to be gods, archomentals, or primordials, though few, if any, truly hold such power.

### Cryonax
On the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]] is an individual that is the closest to becoming a true archomental, also known as a primordial. Standing at 15-feet tall and covered in white fur, he is often said to resemble that of a powerful yeti or a massive polar bear that stands on its hind legs. Cryonax often thinks of himself as a deity already, though he has yet to prove his true power against other archomentals, something many believe he will be fixing soon. He is hoping to expand his rule to the entire plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]], and even for [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]] to replace one of the major Inner Planes in importance in the multiverse. Some even say he dreams of a day where he can freeze over the entire multiverse, ruling it with a freezing fist.

## Paraelementals
The elementals of these planes are known as the paraelementals and include mephits and elementals. They are thought to be the plane given sentience and are summoned by spellcasters looking to trap elemental energies or control them in battle. While the elementals often have unique names to describe themselves, rarely if ever going by the title of paraelemental or mephit, they are categorized as such by scholars who study such creatures and beings. 

The paraelementals of these planes are wary and unfriendly, treating others with extreme caution and even hostility. Their planes are often turned into large battlefields between the warring genie factions who fight and slaughter other creatures indiscriminately across the plane. They can still be treated with, though they are typically only swayed by goods that they see as valuable. [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]] elementals value rare gases and strange perfumes while an [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]] elemental may value magical items that deal with the cold and create cold spells. 

# Encounters
**Ehkahk's Books -** A rumor in [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]] has been making the rounds, that there is an insane mephit on the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]] searching for hidden books and lost knowledge to fill his shelves. Claims to be paying top coin and, those who can bring him valuable knowledge will be given large expanses of land, or [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]] as the case might be, in the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Smoke|Plane of Smoke]]. They may even be elevated to the prestige of being a noble among the mephits, a questionable title if ever there was one.

**Frozen Thoughts -** At the very center of the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ice|Plane of Ice]], even thoughts freeze into crystals of unique forms. Scavengers and explorers brave these painfully cold realms in search of hidden information and ancient knowledge, selling these ideas to the highest bidders. Rumors are that the true name of a demon prince might be found in its frozen form, frozen on the lips of someone long dead.

**Lost Dabus -** The Lady of Pain’s dabus are in charge of the operations of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]], which means they have to unclog the sewers from time-to-time that lead into the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Ooze|Plane of Ooze]]. Unfortunately, a temporary portal closed on a dabus doing such maintenance and is wandering the planes seeking a way back to [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Outer Planes/Outlands/Sigil|Sigil]].

**Obsidian Sails -** Travel across the Plane of [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma|Plane of Magma]] is quite easy for those willing to pay for passage on one of the dao's obsidian ships. Unfortunately, many of these vessels have been commandeered by pirates, and while the [[Places/Cosmology/Planes of Existance/Inner Planes/Para Elemental Planes/Plane of Magma|Plane of Magma]] pirates are incredibly rare, they aren't unheard of on the flowing oceans of lava.

**The Zoo -** The mysterious caretaker of the Arcolantha is hiring a group of adventurers to bring several creatures to its realm so that it might freeze them inside of its walls for all to enjoy. These creatures are rare and difficult to find or might be incredibly deadly, but the pay is good, and it's a chance to find out who actually owns the Arcolantha.